# School Project 2019 Assignment 1

This project was basically a difference in difference analysis. The following text is a snapshot of the full report.

## Introduction

This study is aimed at estimating the effectiveness of search engine advertising (SEA). Search engines can generate two routes of traffic to a website, via organic results and via SEA results. Because SEA has direct costs related to it and organic doesn’t, evaluating its effectiveness in terms of ROI can be beneficial to an advertiser. A medium sized online retailer has provided data about organic and sponsored traffic generated from the search engines Google and Bing over the course of a 40 week period. In the first 20 weeks, sponsored search results were turned on for both search engines. In the following 20 weeks, sponsored search results for Google were turned off while Bing was held as a constant. The central purpose of this case study is to estimate how much additional traffic is generated by sponsored search as well as the return on investment. The upcoming sections will report on the inferential and descriptive analyses made in order to ultimately answer the question: “How much additional traffic does sponsored search generate and what’s the ROI on sponsored search?” 


## Regression

the following regression model can be constructed: ŷ = 6.735,1 + 25.121,6 Dtr - 241,0 Dpost - 4.790,3 X + ε. This model basically tells us that moving from pre- to post will cause a decrease of 240,95 clicks. If this is crossed with the manipulation group, an additional decrease of approx. 4.781,55 will occur. Nothing can be confirmed or inferred from this as there are no real estimates of standard errors or p-values. These should be taken into account. The next step is to conduct a linear regression model in R to obtain these model properties among other potentially useful information. 

The linear model was run by the following R command: “didreg <- lm(TotalTraffic ~ DummyTreatment + DummyPrepost + interaction variable, data = did)”, “Summary(didreg)”. The difference in differences is -4.790. This corresponds roughly to the manually calculated difference in differences (Table 6, β3) which is approximately -4.781,55. This model predicts a -4.790 decrease in the treatment group when moving between the two groups ‘pre’ and ‘post’. The model also predicts a 25.121,6 increase when moving from ‘control’ to ‘treatment’. This corresponds with the estimate for β2 in table 6. The model also shows a -241,0 change when moving between pre- and post groups, which corresponds to the manual calculations of the natural efflux represented by B1 in table 6.

## Managerial Conclusion

The goal of this research was to estimate the effectiveness of search engine advertising (SEA). We found that 5.031,25 clicks were lost by turning off SEA for Google, so turning SEA on for Google had a positive impact on the number of visitors on the website. We also found that there are two groups of people who click on a sponsored link on Google. One group would not visit the website when the sponsored link is not there, but another group will find their way to the website via an organic search link. This is important to keep in mind when calculating the ROI. In this particular case, a little more than half of the visitors who visit the website through a sponsored link would also find their way to the website via an organic link when SEA for Google would be off. This means that the expense of $5.059 for 10.118 ‘new’ clicks actually only provides the online retailer with 5.031,25 truly new clicks. These 5.031,25 clicks generate $7.545 in revenue which translates to an ROI of approximately 50%. To conclude, turning SEA on for Google has a positive impact on the amount of visitors of the website (and therefore on the companies’ profits, but it has to be taken into account that a large number of those ‘paid visitors’ would have found their way to the website without SEA too.

## Future Research

Future research should include an analysis of all the past click-behaviour of past visitors ever recorded. Past visitors should be traced in order to explain whether the visitors have gotten to know about the company due to sponsored or organic clicks in the before the experiment has begun. The visitors who got through to the website using organic clicks might have been visitors who used a sponsored link before. This segment of visitors should be removed from the organic clicks during the research period. Another recommendation can be to perform a longitudinal research by switching on and off the SEA every 20 weeks for a period of 2 years or longer in order to also measure and account for seasonal variations.


